January 6, 2025

Here's to hoping this one sticks. At moments in my life before when I've felt vulnerable or scared I've been able to utilize journaling to hone my thoughts and hole myself accountable to what it is that I'm doing with my days. 

I have looked away from coding for a long time because I've been scared. Scared of what exactly somewhat remains to be seen - perhaps that's why I'm here, doing this. It is in part a fear of seeing myself fail, and also what I guess could be chalked up to a little bit of imposter syndrome. I can't expect anyone else to take me seriously until I do so myself, but that much has been difficult to imagine. 

Perhaps journaling about this daily alongside practice will help me sort all of this out. 

I've also been thinking a lot about goals recently - why did I put myself in this position in the first place, what did I hope to get out of it, what interested me. 

Despite having worked very little at it, I maintain my interest in gaming and game dev. Just as a pet interest. My cursory knowledge of the subject now has had me respecting the games I've played so much more than I already did. I've had a course through the Unity Game Engine on the backburner for some time now. Maybe this will be the time to get that started.

The allure of making more money to support myself and the high likelihood of some remote or hybrid flexibility is compelling to me as well. At my last full time job, I wound up mostly befriending software engineers. They always seemed like the smartest people in the room. I liked that. 

Not too long ago you could argue that I let an oppotunity come and go - JPMC has a training program for emerging software engineers specifically geared towards those who acquired their skills through somewhat unconventional means, a location for which is the city I somewhat randomly moved to a month ago. I essentially talked myself out of applying to this last cohort, feeling like I couldn't put my best foot forward at the time, that I hurt too much, that I was in over my head before it even started. I negotiated with myself and perhaps I lost, though I suppose it is impossible to know. This is a good goal, though. The next cohort won't open until the end of this year so I won't hold out for it, but if it makes sense when that time rolls around...that would be a good one. 
