January 23, 2025

Oopsies, forgot to do this yesterday.

Either way, the conversation with Veronica actually became two when she had to hop off of the first one earlier than she had originally intended. In the end, I think it was actually best that the conversation got split in half because at first it felt as if neither of us really knew exactly how to engage or get the conversation to flow which resulted in her doing the vast majority of the talking, which never feels good. I took some ok notes and was able to share my reason for seeking out tech in the first place, but I definitely walked away feeling as if I had let myself down.

That said, today's second half of the conversation was much better as I decided to kind of just take control from the beginning and pepper her with the questions that I have about the sector, hiring, interviewing, etc from a high level. The conversation flowed much more naturally the second time around and concluded with her offering so 1. speak to me again next week and 2. intro me to some of the people working for her portfolio companies, one of whom works in the game development space. Getting to speak with someone in that realm would be a first for me and likely very informative as to whether or not it's something I'd like to pursue. I am feeling very thankful for that and newly motivated to continue working at this. 

Speaking of, I have a little bit of homework from her, which is to check out tradingtechnologies.com, a Chicago-based firm with which she has partnered in the past. I will also be reviewing Daml, the programming language that Digital Asset Holdings developed to do their own work and maybe, just maybe, build a simple application using it depending on how my own personal schooling goes. I'm thinking something along the lines of a library system, where there are books, lenders, customers, and the library itself. I remember watching a technical interview on YouTube in which the interviewer asked the interviewee to create a Library system in Python. I may watch that back to get some ideas for the specific functionality to build into the Daml version. 