February 17, 2025

Some good progress on Daml homework today. I felt like I was really getting a good grip on the error messages and understanding how to articulate my thoughts with the code. Will continue working tomorrow and reach out to Leve to have another call, or at least to invite him to my Github page for the LibraryApp so he can take a look at what I've been doing.

Had my third call with Mike and Ray today. This last two have hit way less hard than the first one, and I think it's in part because they have done the vast majority of the talking and I haven't been able to tell if that's by design or if I'm just being quiet. It seems like they have a lot of material to get through so maybe I'll just let them run their mouths until they can't anymore. After all, it's not like they're on the clock, and neither am I.

For the next week they've asked me to prepare some materials to organize my networking which is to say that I have to confront how little of that I've done lately. I've never been able to articulate exactly why I have always resisted that sort of thing as the sentiment makes me hardly unique but none of the typical reasons as to why one might resist have never really resonated with me. I suppose the closest is that it just feels slimey. I guess I just wish it felt effortless. Like, I really wanted to do it and be extroverted and perceived and maybe that would make it flow easier, but I simply do not desire to be perceived in this way. Perhaps this is because I have hardly ever felt truly proud of the work that I have done professionally. Maybe we'll get to that. I have a feeling they are already aware of the fact that for me this work with them will largely be a confidence building exercise. 

Tomorrow I'll continue working on my Daml homework and Brayton's site. I think it is time to seriously investigate that system design course as I feel as if it would be a huge boon to my job search process and I could likely knock it out in less than two weeks. Will add investigating to tomorrow's 3:2:1.