February 26, 2025

This one is going to be entirely about the call that I had with Pinar this morning. It was a doozy.

Basically, she would like to offer me a role at C7, this startup portfolio company of 7Ridge's that hardly even exists yet. That is, while they've done some work to cobble together some semblence of a company, I would be the first person that they would properly onboard to the company. 

What this presents is a very exciting learning opportunity. Like, I would get a ton of experience in creating something from scratch which is what I have been saying to myself since I started this search process. I feel as if this may be the best avenue to gain a breadth of experience very quickly so that I might be able to better articulate what I'd like to do with a career in tech down the line. 

It is of course very intimidating as well. Maybe any role that was going to be my first was going to feel as such, but to be the first onboarded employee is an amount of responsiblity that I was not expecting. Should this company persist in any meaningful way, I will set a precedent for every other employee hired. It's a lot to take in at once. I am especially nervous because of how lax the hiring process has been - I know that they have said they know that they are getting a total novice, but I nevertheless fear for the fact that my credentials have yet to be in any way vetted or tested prior to arriving at this place. I hope I have set their expectations realistically.

Pinar has asked me to come back to her with an outline of the responsibilities that I'd like for the role to encompass as well as my salary expectations. I can do as much research as I desire regarding similar roles in a similar industry, but ultimately this will be tricky given that I have no knowledge of their funding, what (if any) equity structure that there is to be had and where that will land me. 

I feel like I have to take this, though. I have had such a difficult time placing something in front of myself that I almost feel as if I do not have an option. As if I have to just ride this wave for as long as I possibly can and see what becomes of it because ultimately I have nothing to lose. 