February 7, 2025

Really energizing day today, perhaps because I accidentally consumed an entire mocha pot's worth of coffee as the day started which probably comes out to about four times my normal intake of caffeine. 

The day was energizing otherwise because of the conversations I had with both Sophia and Pinar, followed by Leve. Sophia and Pinar's was a bit of a black box going in - I had no clue if they had any technical expertise (it sounds like the answer to that is a yes for Pinar, but not necessarily in the Daml coding language developed by DA, and still somewhat of a mystery for Sophia), what exactly they were looking for (also still a little up in the air), or in how close proximity they work with one another (today they had the exact same meetings and schedule, according to Sophia).

The notes I took were scattershot, but after getting a brief intro from each of them (and intro-ing myself), they started talking about their hopes for C7 and the Canton Network. It sounds like they have dreams and ideas beyond what they have development resources for, which was of course interesting to me. When I asked Veronica for her thoughts regarding a tech area where demand for talent is outstripping the supply, it appears she had exactly the right idea in mind.

Nothing is set in stone - they offered to speak with me again next week which I graciously accepted. With some decent expertise, though, it appears that I could be of use to them. Pinar said that much point blank. They have opportunities if I can articulate to them what I want to get out of it as well as how I can be of specific help to them.

The conversation with Leve began to answer the question that the conversation with Pinar and Sophia started, so lucky me to have had them scheduled on the same day only a few hours apart from each other. Thank god I had started a Daml project up, even something terribly rudimentary, so the session became something more of a group coding exercise, and the closest thing I've had yet to a technical interview without any stakes whatsoever. He also offered to speak to me again for a second part of a crash course and gave me some homework to boot. The work is a given - if someone asks me to do something I can't help but at least try. It's a people pleasing thing I'm sure. But, with any luck on top of that, something just might become of this. 